cgp-0236: CELOccelerate: Celo Tokenomics Proposal - Pausing Carbon Fund Payments (#804)
celo-org/governance: CGPs/cgp-0236.md

---
cgp: 236
title: "CELOccelerate: Celo Tokenomics Proposal - Pausing Carbon Fund Payments"
date-created: 2026-04-21
author: "Celo Core Co."
status: DRAFT
discussions-to:
governance-proposal-id:
date-executed:
---

## Summary

> This proposal implements one of the four changes outlined in the [CELOccelerate tokenomics temperature check (CGP-0233)](cgp-0233.md), which recently passed governance. Specifically, it executes item 4: pausing carbon offset fund contributions.

Reviewer: would link to Mondo rather than Github
```suggestion
This proposal implements one of the four changes outlined in the [CELOccelerate tokenomics temperature check (CGP-0233)](https://mondo.celo.org/governance/286), which recently passed governance. Specifically, it executes item 4: pausing carbon offset fund contributions.
```

Reviewer 2: @pahor167 can you please take a look at this suggestions from @martinvol

It pauses the fee-based carbon fund distributions on the FeeHandler (currently 10% of transaction fees) by setting the carbon fraction to zero via governance.

## Specification

### Current State (Mainnet)

| Contract | Parameter | Current Value |
|----------|-----------|---------------|

> | FeeHandler (`0xcD43...778`) | `carbonFraction` | `100000000000000000000000` (10% in Fixidity) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| FeeHandler (`0xcD43...778`) | `carbonFraction` | `100000000000000000000000` (10% in Fixidity fixed point library) |
```

Reviewer 2: @pahor167 can you please take a look at this suggestions from @martinvol
